This archive contains data files supporting the paper:

Capra JA and Singh M. Characterization and Prediction of Residues
Determining Protein Functional Specificity. Bioinformatics, In Press,
2008.

This paper must be cited if any part of this data set is used.


The "capra_bioinf08_data/" directory contains four types of
files.

    1. Alignment files (*.aln).  CLUSTAL format PROBCONS alignments of
       sequences from homologous specificity groups.  The alignment
       name gives information about the aligned specificity groups.  A
       tilde (~) separates the names of the groups.  Each group name
       includes the EC number (1st field) and Pfam ID (3rd field) of
       the sequences in the group.  Sequences in the alignment are
       named according to their SwissProt or PDB ID, the sequence
       range where the Pfam domain is found, and the EC number of the
       sequence (each separated by a '|').  Within an alignment file,
       the EC number defines the specificity group of each sequence.

    2. Ligand distance files (*.ligdist5).  For many of the alignment
       files there is a corresponding ligand distance file that
       contains a list of all the alignment columns within 5\AA of a
       ligand.  The lines that begin with a '*' provide a union of all
       the alignment columns found near a relevant ligand in one of
       the structures representative of the listed specificity
       group. The near ligand columns for each representative PDB
       chain in the specificity group used are listed below the '*'
       lines.  In our analysis the union of all alignment columns
       across specificity groups ('*' lines) in the file was used for
       each alignment.

    3. Catalytic Site distance files (*.csadist5).  For alignments
       that contain a structure with an experimentally identified
       catalytic site, there will be a .csadist5 file.  This file
       follows the same format as the ligand distance files, but
       instead lists all columns within 5\AA of a known catalytic site
       for the specificity group.

    4. Putative SDP files (*.sdp(L|O|A)).  For each alignment, these
       files give a list of the columns in each of the putative SDP
       sets (SDP_L, SDP_O, SDP_A) described in the paper.  If no
       alignment positions are within 5\AA of a ligand/cat. site and
       pass the filter, then the file contains no column numbers.


Please note: all column indices used in these files start with 0.

The results in the text are based on a subset of the alignments that
does not include any EC-Pfam pair more than once.  The file
"non_redundant.txt" lists the alignments used in our analysis.

In all files, lines beginning with '#' are comments.  See the main
text for background and a full explanation of the creation of the
data set.

Please email the authors with any questions.
